I wrote this tool to help me troubleshoot my prusaslicer/p2pp/palette2 toolchain.  It takes a p2pp-generated gcode file as input, and uses it as a config file to generate gcode from scratch.  It produces a series of twelve 500mm3 purge squares, one for each possible transition of the four input colors.  It prints them in a grid with a missing unity diagonal, presented the same way as the advanced purging volumes dialog of prusaslicer.

I added printed reference marks which represent where the transition is supposed to be, based on SLICEOFFSET.  I may add some additional reference marks which delineate every 50mm3 of purge volume.  The idea is to be able to visually see where your transitions fall in the block, and how much volume is required to fully purge a given color combination.

While getting this working, I was also struggling with calibration issues.  I found this can be a useful tool for varying settings and getting quick, direct feedback on the effects.

First, some notes on how the P2 works.
When you post-process your gcode for the P2, the postprocessor looks at all the filament extruded between toolchanges, and then creates a splice table which tells the P2 how long and what color each splice needs to be.  The P2 knows how much filament has been consumed via the scroll wheel counts.  
When you calibrate for the printer, you are showing the P2 how much filament has passed through the scroll wheel when the beginning of the first splice is just reaching the nozzle.  This is the Loading Offset (LO).
The postprocessor also inserts ping commands at regular intervals.  These ping commands tell the P2 "this is where I am in the print!"  The P2 compares the expected location from the ping against the actual amount of filament which has passed through the scroll wheel, and the ratio of these is your ping % value.  The P2 will attempt to correct this by adjusting the Historical Modifier (HM), which is basically the esteps count for the scroll wheel.  When saving the results of a successful print, it will store the HM value that it settled on during the print to the preferences for that printer.  Running several calibration prints allows the P2 to converge on the correct HM value which will produce exactly as much filament as the printer will consume.

When using this tool, if the HM is not correct for the printer, then the transitions in each block will "march", either forward or backward.  What I mean by this is, if the first transition is early, the second will be a little earlier, the third earlier still, etc, until the ping feedback makes it back to the p2, and the splice length adjustments from the p2 make it to the nozzle.  After running the tool a few times, the HM will converge to the "correct" value for your printer.  In my case, the transitions were then stable, but they weren't where I expected them to be, they were substantially early.
I then found that I could manually adjust the loading offset to account for this error.  Reducing the LO by a couple mm brought the transition point forward, raising it brought it backward.  After changing the LO, my HM was no longer correct, and I had to reconverge.
After that, I found that I could get reliable results where the transitions occurred more or less where they should be for every square, but my HM was around 92%.  I had reduced my esteps in troubleshooting, which seemed to help at the time, but was really just covering up other inaccuracies.  After performing the above procedure, I was calibrated, but with quite low ping.  I then increased esteps and did the above again, and after a couple iterations was able to get reliable transitions, in the correct place, with a ping of 100+/-0.3% consistently.
After that, I moved back to the regular toolchain, and I found that there was a little bit of reconvergence required after that as well.  After a few prints, my HM has settled out to about 102%.  I'm not sure why the discrepancy between this tool and the regular toolchain, but it is working well as-is, so that is where I have left it for now.
